it's seen as one of the most prominent
cases in the more than 75 year long
history of the international court of
justice 17 judges will have to decide if
Israel is committing genocide that is
deliberately wiping out Palestinians in
Gaza as an ethnic group entirely or in
part the genocide convention was
anonymously adopted in 1948 after World
War II a unified commitment by the
International Community to naet
atrocities like the Holocaust must
happen again South Africa decided to
bring the case before the world's
highest court after un resolutions
calling for a stop to Israel's actions
in Gaza were either vetoed or ignored by
Israel there is a compelling argument
that genocide is being committed um in
Gaza on the basis that there is um an
anhil or cleansing of a civilian
population and um also the the the Cotes
of is ministers and Generals of the army
aimed to to to to anhil the entire
population of Palestine from from the
Gaza Strip our founding father has been
very clear that South Africa is not free
until the people of Palestine are free
Israel denies it is committing genocide
calling the case blood liable a false
anti-semitic accusation they say history
will judge South Africa the Israeli
delegation was not available to comment
Wednesday experts on international law
call it ironic that 75 years after the
genocide convention was adopted because
of the Holocaust it will be Israel that
will be in the dock facing genocide
accusations the stakes here at the peace
Palace in the ha are high because the UN
court is the highest body the UN has to
uphold international law South Africa
has asked the court for an urgent
injunction to stop Israel's military
campaign while cases at the icj usually
take years a decision on provisional
measures is expected within weeks The
Prestige of the UN as a whole as a
system is hanging in the balance here
this is a moment for the West to
actually answer to the um the sanctity
of international law that they have held
so sacred icj or World Court decisions
are binding but the court has no power
to enforce them recently Myanmar and
Russia ignored verdicts to stop
potential genocidal acts South Africa
hopes that if they win it will further
increase International pressure on
countries like the United States who are
becking Israel to do more to stop the
fighting step fast in Al jazer
deake make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer